 Steps
1. Check if Python is Installed
Open Command Prompt or PowerShell.

Run:
python --version

If it says something like:
Python was not found...
then Python is not properly installed or not added to the system PATH.

2. Install Python Properly
Go to the official Python website and download the latest version for Windows.

During installation, make sure to check the box:

[✔] Add Python to PATH

3. Verify After Installation
Close and reopen the Command Prompt or PowerShell.

Run:
python --version

You should now see:
Python 3.x.x

4. Create the Virtual Environment 
Once Python is properly installed, try :

python -m venv .venv
This will create a .venv folder with the virtual environment.

Optional: Fix the App Execution Aliases if 
python -m venv .venv
Python was not found; run without arguments to install from the Microsoft Store, or disable this shortcut from Settings > Apps > Advanced app settings > App execution aliases.
Python was not found; run without arguments to install from the Microsoft Store...
means that your system cannot find the Python executable in your PATH. Here's how to fix it:
I
f you're using Windows 10/11:

Go to Settings > Apps > Advanced App Settings > App execution aliases

Turn OFF the toggles for:

python.exe

python3.exe

This avoids conflicts with the Microsoft Store stub.



create virtual environment 

Run this in your project root:


python -m venv .venv
This will create a .venv/ folder neatly containing everything.

3. Activate the virtual environment
On Windows (cmd):
.venv\Scripts\activate

On Windows (PowerShell):
.\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1










To install packages from a requirements.txt file into your virtual environment, follow these steps:

✅ Step-by-Step Guide
1. Activate your virtual environment
Make sure you're in your project folder and your virtual environment is created (in .venv/).

On Windows (cmd):
.venv\Scripts\activate

On Windows (PowerShell):
.\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
On macOS/Linux:


You should see the virtual environment name in your terminal prompt (like (.venv)).

2. Install dependencies from requirements.txt
Run:

pip install -r requirements.txt
This will install all packages listed in the file into your virtual environment.

📦 Example requirements.txt

3. Verify installed packages (optional)
After installation, you can check installed packages with:

pip list












